# Hexagolan Grid Puzzle

The problem requires the player to place all the available pieces inside the 
grid, without leaving any empty cells. The pieces cannot overlap nor be turned 
upside-down. Only 2-dimensional rotations are allowed.

A problem usually have at least one of the cells blocked from the start, in 
order to constrain the solution. In this case, all the 12 available pieces 
should be used.


## Installation

The solver requires `numpy`, `PyYaml` and `matplotlib`. You can install them 
manually via pip/conda or use the requirements file:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt

# --- OR ---

conda install --file requirements.txt
```


## Usage

### Solving a problem

To solve a problem, use the `solve.py` script:
```
python solve.py <problem_config.yaml>
```

This requires a YAML configuration file describing the porblem.
The configuration file should contain the list of blocked cells (as (x, y) 
coordinate pairs) in the `blocked_grid_cells` section.
Optionally, it can also contain an `excluded_pieces` section containing a list 
of piece indexes to exclude from the available pieces for the solution.
See examples in the `problems` folder.

If a solution is found, this is also saved in the configuration file, in the 
`solution` section (unless one already exists).

The script also accepts some optional arguments. See the relative help message 
for details.

### Generating a solution image

To generate an image of the solution to a problem, use the `make_figure.py` 
script:
```
python make_figure.py <problem_config.yaml> <image_file_name>
```

This requires a YAML configuration file with the same format as for the 
`solve.py` script. In addition, this also requires the `solution` section to 
be present, as generated by the solving script.
